steps for creating EKS cluster from AWS colsole:

1) create a security group and allow all trafic for cluster subnet or for all vpc
2) create a IAM role for EKS cluster with below details:

    Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/
    In the left navigation pane, choose Roles.
    On the Roles page, choose Create role.
    On the Select trusted entity page, do the following:
    In the Trusted entity type section, choose AWS service.
    Under Use case, choose EKS from drop down.
    then choose redio button "EKS - Cluster"
    Choose Next.

    you will see AmazonEKSClusterPolicy is already added.
    Choose Next.
    On the Name, review, and create page, do the following:
    For Role name, enter a unique name for your role, such as AmazonEKSClusterRole.
    For Description, replace the current text with descriptive text such as Amazon EKS - cluster role.
    Under Add tags (Optional), add metadata to the role by attaching tags as key–value pairs.
    Choose Create role.

    after creating the role select the same role, then in "permissions" tab, click on "Add permissions" then select "attach policies" then On the Add policies page, do the following:
    In the Filter policies box, enter AmazonEKSVPCResourceController.
    Select the check box to the left of AmazonEKSVPCResourceController in the search results.
    Choose Add permissions.

3) create a IAM role for EKS node group with below details:

    Open the IAM console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/
    In the left navigation pane, choose Roles.
    On the Roles page, choose Create role.
    On the Select trusted entity page, do the following:
    In the Trusted entity type section, choose AWS service.
    Under Use case, choose EC2.
    Choose Next.
    On the Add permissions page, do the following:
    In the Filter policies box, enter AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy.
    Select the check box to the left of AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy in the search results.
    Choose Clear filters.
    In the Filter policies box, enter AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly.
    Select the check box to the left of AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly in the search results.
    Either the AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy managed policy.
    Choose Next.
    On the Name, review, and create page, do the following:
    For Role name, enter a unique name for your role, such as AmazonEKSNodeRole.
    For Description, replace the current text with descriptive text such as Amazon EKS - Node role.
    Under Add tags (Optional), add metadata to the role by attaching tags as key–value pairs.
    Choose Create role.


4) nevigate to "Elastic Kubernetes Service: service plane in aws colsole, then cloose "Add Cluster" --> Create

    provide name of the cluster
    choose same iam  role "AmazonEKSClusterRole" you created before.
    if you want to enable encryption, then select your KMS key from dropdown.
    if you want to add Tags, then add it.
    choose Next
    select appropriate VPC, then subnets then select the same EKS-SG you created before.
    Choose IPv4 for "Choose cluster IP address family"
    then enable "Configure Kubernetes service IP address range" and put CIDR range from which pool you want EKS cluster to pickup IPs.
    for  "Cluster endpoint access":
    choose "Public" for The cluster endpoint is accessible from outside of your VPC. Worker node traffic will leave your VPC to connect to the endpoint. 
    choose "Public and private" for The cluster endpoint is accessible from outside of your VPC. Worker node traffic to the endpoint will stay within your VPC.
    choose "Private" for The cluster endpoint is only accessible through your VPC. Worker node traffic to the endpoint will stay within your VPC.

    for me I have choosen public for my test cluster.
    click on Next

    enable appropriate button if you want to Send audit and diagnostic logs from the Amazon EKS control plane to CloudWatch Logs.
    I havent enabled any button for my test cluster.
    click on Next

    click on Next for Select add-ons page

    keep all default value for "Configure selected add-ons settings" page. click on Next.
    Verify details and hit "Create" button.

5)  it will take few minutes to create the cluster. then once the cluster is in "Active" status, go to the "Compute" tab 
    --> click on "add node groups"
    in "Configure node group" page
    --> put a nodegroup name
    --> select "AmazonEKSNodeRole" iam role you created before for nodegroup.
    --> if you want to use a Launch template, you may define it, for my test cluster, I havnt defined any, click "Next"
    in "Node group compute configuration" page
    --> keep everything same for test cluster, in "Node group scaling configuration" section, make 1 in every Desired size, Minimum size, Maximum size. click "Next". 
    --> select appropriate subnets or keep same as pre-populated.
    --> enable "Configure remote access to nodes" then seletct appropriate key pair for login, then select "All" for test cluster.click "Next".
    --> Verify details and hit "Create" button.

6) once cluster status is "Active" and nodegroup is also "Active" you are good to access the cluster.


7) for accessing the cluster, Note that "YOU NEED TO USE THE SAME USER FOR ACCESSING THE CLUSTER BY WHICH USER YOU CREATED THE CLUSTER".
    so for my test cluster, I have user abc user to login into the aws console then created everything with abc user, then did below in myy personal mac to access the cluster.


below are pre-requisites for accessing the cluster from local machine:

1) install aws cli(for MacOS):
    curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.pkg" -o "AWSCLIV2.pkg"
    sudo installer -pkg AWSCLIV2.pkg -target /
    which aws
    aws --version

2) install kubelctl(For MacOS using brew):
    brew install kubectl
    kubectl version --client

3)  install aws-iam-authenticator(for MacOS using brew)
    brew install aws-iam-authenticator
    aws-iam-authenticator help

3) install eksctl(for MacOS using brew):
    brew tap weaveworks/tap
    brew install weaveworks/tap/eksctl
    eksctl version

8) now set aws profile for EKS usig below command using Mac Terminal:

    aws configure --profile AWS_PROFILE
    then provide access key and secret access key, region details for the SAME USER YOU USED TO CREATE THE EKS CLUSTER. put "json" for "Default output format".
    then verify the user details using below command :

    aws sts get-caller-identity
    you will see the user or role arn and verify this is same as cluster creation role or user.

    then run:

    aws eks update-kubeconfig --name cluser_name --region aws_region
    it will create .kube folder in your /Users/YourUserName and put config file inside /Users/YourUserName/.kube directory

    now you can verify access to your eks cluster using :

    kubectl get namespaces
    you will see below:
    NAME              STATUS   AGE
    default           Active   173m
    kube-node-lease   Active   173m
    kube-public       Active   173m
    kube-system       Active   173m